Next we come on to the Hunslet which was used underground to all supplies. It was
used to take men underground. It would be bringing the men out. It would be fitted
with a diesel engine. You couldn't fit a petrol engine. There'd be too much
danger in gas. Diesel was totally enclosed and was quite safe underground. Providing the
exhaust was long enough and muffled. To your right there's a lump of steel that
was a steam hammer. This came from Coygnant Collery to Blaenant in 1968.
When it was in commission in Coygnant the anvil that you see next to it would
have been actually underneath the hammer and protruding through this oblong hole
in the hammer. And the hammer would have been steam operated. You see the steam
engine on the left. This would have worked the hammer up and down for shaping
the steel.
Large sections of steel.